..just declared
a seven-day state of emergency
ahead of catastrophic
fire conditions...
..experiencing temperatures
higher than 39 degrees.
..playing out, the huge toll
on our unique wildlife.
Critics of the Prime Minister,
who's on holiday with his...
I'm not gonna stand there
and hold a hose.
I'm not a trained firefighter.
Roadblocks are popping up
all over the state, and...
Residents grabbed what they could
and left.
MAN: Do not wait for fire to be
bearing down at the back door
before you start making decisions.
Joel!
We've spoken to the Weather Bureau,
and news is not looking good.
The prediction for tomorrow is
an uncomfortable 40 degrees,
with low humidity
and potential for high winds.
Conditions are unpredictable,
to say the least.
There's every possibility
of road closures,
so unless you're staying to defend,
and like I said earlier,
you need to be properly prepared
with the resources,
skills and capacity to do so,
our advice is that you should leave.
We just got here!
(CROWD MURMURS)
Today.
OK, OK.
Now, while you're all here,
I want to give a shout out to
our amazing volunteer firefighters,
who've given up work and family time
to protect the rest of us.
Especially the crews from
interstate. Thanks, guys.
Let's give 'em a round of applause.
That's right.
Thanks, everyone. Keep your radios
on for updates at all times, please.
You guys are legends,
doing what you do.
Thanks, mate.
Right.
(PHONE RINGS)
Oh, it's Aunty Rosie again.
She's stressing out.
She wants me home.
I'm gonna take this.
Excuse me.
Excuse me. My sister's
on her way down from Sydney
and she's already booked...
She should turn around.
It's not safe.
Yep, turn around.
Yeah, thanks Mike, thank you.
Yeah, she'll be ready.
Thanks, mate. Yeah,
see you soon. Bye.
Great. So, Mike and Pete
are going to take you to your mum's.
No way.
I don't want to go with them.
They're creepy.
They're not. They're lovely.
You're going with Mike and Pete
and that's the end of the story.
It's not safe for you here
if the road's closed.
If it's not safe,
why are you staying?
'Cause we've gotta look after
La Casa!
You good?
Yeah.
I'm good.
You good?
Yeah. I'm good.
She's carrying on again.
Does it every year.
She's going on about having
an ethical Christmas or something,
whatever that means.
And all she wants is this
goat from Cambodia!
What's she gonna do with a Cambodian
goat, for Christ's sake?
So I got her soap.
Which is also ethical.
Cleanliness, Godliness and all that.
Fair compromise, don't you think?
(SIRENS WAIL)
Fires won't make it to town, baby.
They never do.
Here you go.
I'll see you both on Monday, OK?
Hey, Peter, is there any chance that
we could get a couple of extra doses
just given the circumstances?
That's the most I can do, sorry.
I'll see you Monday.
Before the tourists go,
they're gonna cut my shifts.
They won't cut your shifts, baby.
It'll pass.
Yeah.
You're the only one I know
who keeps methadone in the fridge.
I like it cold.
Oh, shit. I'm sorry.
I've got some next door.
Thanks.
Last time they had a meeting
like that,
we got the same spiel from the CFS,
we all freaked out
and nothing happened.
Yeah?
If it all turns to crap,
you can come with me.
Ride it out at my sister's place.
OK. Thanks.
I don't think it will,
but if it does - serenity, baby.
Accept the things we can't change.
Yeah, yeah.
(WHISTLES LIGHT MELODY)
That's it.
You can't make me!
Come on, Kat, be reasonable.
It's the only way to get home.
Don't give me reasonable!
I'm calling Mum.
Don't call her.
I don't want to go with some weird
guys I don't even know.
She'll be fine, Carol.
She likes Mike and Pete.
I wouldn't feel safe, Mum.
Seriously, I don't know why Dad
can't take me. It's not that far.
(SLAMS DOOR)
I mean, just take her.
No. She's being a shit.
She's scared of the fires, Adrian.
And if you leave now,
you'll have time to get there
and back by the morning.
And I can just do
the rest of the prep myself.
Thank you.
OK, Kat.
I'll call Mike and Pete.
(UNDER BREATH) Fuck me.
You alright, mate?
Are you lost?
Yeah.
Oh, that's no good.
Well, do you remember roughly
where your parents were?
Not really.
You ever been on a golf buggy?
You wanna try?
Come on.
How fast does it go?
I don't know, mate.
Shall we find out?
Whoo-hoo!
Say hi to my friend Colin.
Hi, Colin!
Hey, Colin!
Yes, that's my mum!
Oh!
Oh, Jesus, Roi, where were you?
I went to the toilet but I got lost.
Oh! Your dad's looking for you.
Um...thank you.
My husband wants to go, but I think
it's crazy to just turn around
and drive straight back to Canberra.
What do you think?
Yeah, I...I really don't know.
Hey.
Oh, hey.
You got him?
Yeah.
Um, sorry, what's your name?
Um, Joel.
Joel very kindly dropped him back.
Ohh! (CHUCKLES)
Thank you. Thank you so much, mate.
No problem.
Let me give you a beer.
Oh, no, thanks. I don't drink.
Oh.
OK, well...
Well, thanks again.
We really appreciate it.
Yeah, really appreciate your help.
No problem.
Thought you'd been
eaten by crocodiles!
Mmm? Making your mum worry,
make me worry.
(PLAYFULLY) You like giving
headaches? You like it, huh?
ROI: (GIGGLES) No.
Yeah?
No, not to your mum, not to me, huh?
Snack bag.
Oh, thanks.
You're welcome.
Put it in the front.
Hey, Kat, I'm sorry that we don't
get to spend Christmas together
but I wanted to give you this.
It's just from me.
It's small,
but I thought maybe you'd like it.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Ah, checklist is on the fridge.
Can you clear that ground fill
from around the side?
Yeah, I got it. There's going to be
traffic, so get moving.
Bye-bye.
Mwah! Call me
when you get there, though.
I will.
Bye!
(BIRDS SQUAWK)
(PHONE BUZZES)
(LOUD KNOCKING)
(KNOCKING CONTINUES)
MAN: Evacuate now!
(KNOCKS)
What?
We need you to evacuate!
We need you to leave!
There's a leave now order in place
for all of Woolley's Bay.
We need you to evacuate immediately.
That's just for tourists, yeah?
Situation's changed overnight.
If you're not defending,
we need you to leave now.
Even in town, man?
Evacuate now!
Oh, fuck.
Peter!
Marita, Pete's closed shop.
I've got no lift, and I've got
no methadone thanks to you.
Can you please come back now, please?
RECORDING: Hello, you've reached
Woolley's Bay's Medical Centre.
We're currently closed, but in case
of an emergency, please call 000.
Fuck!
(WATER DRIPS)
(SIRENS WAIL)
(RINGTONE)
Hello?
Hey, Sam.
It's me, it's Joel.
I know.
Is Mum there?
Mum doesn't wanna talk to you.
She doesn't wanna have
anything to do with you.
Don't call again, OK?
ADRIAN: I'm sorry, Lall, Carol was
worried about me driving tired.
It was just supposed to be a nap.
Adrian!
I've just left.
I'm three hours away.
I'll go as fast as I can.
Well, don't speed.
There's gonna be cops everywhere.
I don't want you to get pulled over.
I've gotta stop for petrol, though.
Shit.
Lall, I said I was sorry.
No, no, it's...
it's that fire out of Sydney.
It's right near Nadia's place.
Their house is gonna be gone
for sure.
Well, that's not gonna be us.
We've got our checklist.
We're prepared.
Nine times out of ten these places
go up because of spot fires
that we can put out easily.
We've got the pump,
we've got plenty of water.
The CFS will probably come round
and make sure
that everyone in Woolley's Bay's
got the emergency warning.
They can't legally make you leave,
so you just tell 'em...
I know what to say, Adrian.
Lall, we didn't spend the last three
years working on the house
to watch it burn.
I'm not gonna let that happen.
(PHONE BUZZES)
We're gonna be fine.
Yeah, I know.
Adrian, I'm going to call you back.
Dad's freaking out
so I want to call him.
OK. I'll call you back in an hour.
Love you.
Yeah, I love you too.
Hey, mate, it's me.
Um, I don't know if you've left town
already but I'm chasing a lift.
So if you're heading out of Woolley's
or if you know someone who is,
just give me a ring.
OK, thanks, mate. Bye.
Colin!
ROI: Don't pull the pegs out yet.
I'm still packing!
Hurry up, Roi.
I need you to pack up
your cricket set, please.
Quick sticks!
Did you guys need a hand
with anything?
Oh, hey, Joel.
Yeah, yeah, please. Thanks.
Should have left yesterday, mate.
It's just...stupid.
Yeah, me too. My friend, she was
supposed to give me a lift out
but she left without me.
Shitty friend.
(OVER LOUDSPEAKER) We need everyone
packed up, and leave immediately.
This is a leave now order.
I'm so sorry to ask this...
We're, uh...we're going
straight to Canberra.
As in directly.
No detours, you know?
No, that's good for me.
That's good for me.
Um...you'd be really helping me out.
I'm sorry.
I don't know what else to do.
I hope you're not a serial killer.
Hey. Roi.
I was gonna ask you the same thing.
I've been sitting here terrified.
I'm not a serial killer.
Are you a serial killer?
No.
Oh, thank God.
Joel, uh,
you got a family in Canberra?
Yeah, my mum's there, yeah,
and my brother, yeah.
Mum does a big family lunch
on Christmas Day.
She's a really good cook, actually.
My mum's a great cook as well.
Yeah.
She probably lit these fires
to make sure we got back
for Christmas lunch.
(CHUCKLES) That's funny.
Actually, can you text her?
Just let her know we're on the way.
Stop her stressing.
Oh, you think that'll do it?
How long till we get there,
do you think?
Mm, maybe two and a half,
three hours.
Something like that.
OK. Yeah.
Can I open a Christmas present?
No!
Did you wanna do a quiz?
Oh, yes, Quiz Master.
You want ME to be
the Quiz Master? OK.
Alright, you got your buzzer ready?
Mm-hm.
What does it sound like?
So I know it's you.
Bzz.
Oh, no, there's a bee in the car.
(LAUGHS)
Bzz!
OK.
What is the name of a baby elephant?
Aunty Rosie won't let up.
She wants me to stop.
Wants this to be the last rotation.
She's worried about you.
I told her it's fine.
Here we go.
Hi.
Are you aware
there's a leave-now fire order
in place for Woolley's Bay?
Ah, yeah.
We're staying to defend.
My partner's on his way back from
Canberra, so he should be here soon.
You only have one access road
into your property.
If you get into trouble,
we won't be able to get to you.
We have a fire plan
and we've been preparing in line
with the CFS recommendations.
Well, you should monitor your radio.
If you hear
the "shelter in place" warning,
that means the fire's close.
You won't be able to
leave by that point.
And don't get into your car.
You won't be safe in your car.
I know that. I know what to do.
You say you know what to do
but you have no idea what it's like.
The fire will hit,
then it will turn pitch black.
You won't be able to see anything,
you won't be able to breathe
because of the smoke and the noise.
It's like a freight train
going right over the top of you.
Can we...can we get your full name,
and your partner's, please?
Um, what for?
In case the coroner needs it.
It's Lally.
L-A-L-L-Y.
Yep.
Robinson.
And my partner's name
is Adrian Cash.
C-A-S-H.
Yep.
Thank you.
Good luck.
Why isn't she listening to us?
She thinks
she knows how to handle it.
No-one can handle it, Tash.
She doesn't know.
Yeah, but we're the ones that get
caught when shit goes down.
Does she not know that?
She's putting others at risk.
ADRIAN: So who else is staying?
No, I don't think anybody is.
Well, Barry and Claire are.
No, their daughter convinced them.
They're...they've gone.
I mean, everyone's gone.
I'm the only one left.
OK, well, I'm about an hour away.
I don't think we need to panic.
No, I'm not panicking, I just want
you to get your arse back here.
Yeah, I'm on my way.
(COCKATOOS SQUAWK)
(LOUD SQUAWKING)
Ah, just a small one, Roi.
You've gotta save the rest
for Christmas Day, OK?
(QUIETLY) Unbelievable.
There's two fires ahead of us.
Let's turn the radio on.
See what they say.
RADIO: Emergency warnings
are now in place
for out of control fires near Sydney
and on the South Coast.
A megablaze has taken hold
just west of Sydney
and multiple homes have been
lost in the past few hours.
It's supposed to be for Dad,
but you can have it.
Hey! (CHUCKLES) What's going on?
Oh, no, I couldn't.
I got you another one.
I'm just kidding.
Joel, take it, mate.
It's a Christmas present.
Hey, that was really nice of you,
Roi.
Thank you.
The seagulls are eating the chips,
see?
I love 'em. Thank you.
You're welcome.
Oh, no.
MAN: (OVER LOUDSPEAKER)
This road is now closed.
Stay in your vehicle until diverted.
Oh, shit.
Mate, the road's closed.
Do you know how long for?
My partner's in Woolley's Bay
on her own and she's waiting for me.
We don't know. There's two fires
that look like
they're going to merge.
They're doing a back burn in there
to try and stop it.
Could be a while.
What about the back road?
Oh, no, that road's really bad.
I don't even know
if it gets through anymore.
You wouldn't want to get stuck on it.
I think I should probably
ride it out here.
Might not be too long.
Just keep working through
the checklist.
I'll be there soon, Lall, I promise.
Just hang on, yeah?
Alright. Well, um, you let me know
as soon as you know something,
alright?
Yeah. I will.
You good?
Yeah, I'm good.
Love you.
(HELICOPTER WHIRRS)
(BIRDS CALL)
Gabbo, it's Joel, man.
I really, really need you
to call me, man.
OK?
(SPEAKS FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
(SIGHS) She's freaking out.
She saw on the news
there's a massive fire
just north-east of here.
(WOMAN CRIES, HORNS BLAST,
LOW-LEVEL CONVERSATION)
RECORDING: Hi, you've called Johnno.
Shit!
(HORNS BLAST REPEATEDLY)
What the...
Where are they going?
They're probably taking
the back road.
There's a back road?
Yeah. Mostly only locals use it,
but there is one.
It does get you through,
it just takes a lot longer.
No. Sai, if there was a safe option,
then the police would be
telling people to use it.
Mum, can we turn
the air conditioning on?
Oh...
We can't, buddy.
We haven't got enough petrol,
alright? We have to keep it off.
It's so hot. I feel sick.
I know, I know.
Yeah.
Sai, can we just turn it on
for a minute?
We can't.
(PHONE RINGS)
Hey, man.
Yeah, I've been trying to get you.
You still near Canberra?
Great. Great.
I can do that, man.
I can do that.
Just...just promise me that you won't
leave until I get there, OK?
Promise me.
Alright.
I mean, is this road even going to
open tonight?
It might not.
I don't know, I just, uh...
I just don't know if it's safe.
Are the fires coming, Mum?
No.
No, sweetheart, no.
Look, the fires are that way, yeah?
Yeah.
Back road is way over there.
OK? You gotta double back for a bit,
but then it's gonna take you to here
and then that joins up
with the main road.
Straight to Canberra, you see?
There is a road.
I don't know, it just...
It just doesn't feel safe here,
you know?
It just doesn't feel safe.
(CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYS)
(ON RADIO) Woolley's Bay,
watch and act.
Wattleside Glen, watch and act.
Caulder, emergency warning.
Tirabah, emergency warning.
Upper Moreville, shelter in place.
For residents there,
it's too late to leave.
I repeat, Woolley's Bay,
watch and act.
Wattleside Glen, watch and act.
Fuck's sake.
BEC: Mm-hm.
Yep.
Just put it in the fridge.
We're on our way.
We'll be there soon, OK?
Amah, relax.
OK.
Bye.
Sai, slow down a bit.
I'm going slow.
(SHAKILY) Stop the car.
Could you stop the car, please?
I'm sorry, Joel, you...
Stop the car, please.
What?
Stop the car.
Alright, alright.
Joel.
(RETCHES)
(JOEL CRIES OUT)
(GAGS)
(GASPS, COUGHS)
(RETCHES)
(SIGHS)
Are you OK?
Yeah.
I'm so sorry.
I'm just a little carsick.
Hey, uh, Roi,
can you get Joel some water, please?
Thank you.
OK.
Good to go.
Can you smell smoke?
Residents of Wattleside Glen,
you are advised to watch and act.
Residents of Woolley's Bay
are also advised
to continue to watch and act.
An emergency warning
is in place for Caulder.
Residents should leave now
and head immediately towards
the evacuation centre
at the showgrounds west of town.
There is also an emergency warning
in place for residents of Tirabah.
The latest information
is that you should leave now.
For residents at Tirabah,
a marshalling area has been set up
at the football field
on Gatton Road.
Residents of Upper Moreville...
Fuck, keep your shit together, Lall.
..it is too late to leave.
Do not get in your car
as it will be too dangerous
to travel at this point.
Repeat, for residents of Upper
Moreville, shelter in place.
It is too late to leave.
Are you OK there, Joel?
What's that?
You OK?
Yeah. Yeah, I'm good, thanks.
Heaps better.
Alright, which way, Joel?
Left or right?
Um...
Do you know?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's...it's left.
You go left here.
Are you sure?
Yeah, definitely.
It's definitely left.
What does the map say, Bec?
The map says there's only one road.
Don't worry about the map.
It's left.
They keep saying watch and act,
but what does that even mean?
Like 'act' - act how?
Nothing, it just means be alert.
They're always overly cautious.
RADIO: A warning
remains in place for Caulder.
Residents should leave now.
Maybe I should leave.
Come on, Lall.
I mean, just...
..just get in the car,
don't you think?
Get in the car and go?
Leave the house?
Yeah. It's not too late.
I could...I could meet you
somewhere.
What if the road doesn't open?
What if you don't get back?
Stop.
I'm gonna come back and we're gonna
defend, just like we planned.
You just need to calm down.
You know, Adrian,
don't tell me what to do!
Repeating those current warnings.
Residents of Woolley's Bay
and Waterside Glen
must continue to watch and act.
An emergency warning
remains in place for Caulder.
Residents should leave now
and head immediately towards
the evacuation centre
at the showgrounds west of town.
There is also an emergency warning
in place for residents of Tirabah.
You should leave now.
(LOUD BANG)
(GASPS)
..a marshalling area has been set up
at the football field...
(BIRDS SQUAWK)
(RADIO CONTINUES BROADCASTING)
I don't have any reception.
I think we should turn around.
There's no room to turn around.
Joel, are you sure
this is the right road?
Yeah.
I'm sorry, I...I don't remember
it being this bad.
Have you even been
on this road before?
(THUMP!)
(WHISPERS) Jesus.
Tirabah, shelter in place.
Wattleside Glen, your emergency
warning has been upgraded.
You must leave now.
Woolley's Bay, shelter in place.
It is no longer safe to leave.
Repeat message for Woolley's Bay.
I don't like this.
We...we need to hurry.
I'm trying to, babe.
Here, let me try.
You've gotta line 'em up
with the studs.
I know that.
OK.
I know that. Yep.
Sai, you need to do it.
Joel can't. He's not well.
No, I'm fine, I'm fine.
You don't look fine.
I'm all good.
You're not just carsick.
What's going on?
Bec, please, just let it go.
No!
He dragged us out here
into the middle of nowhere.
I don't even know
why we listened to him.
He's a complete stranger.
We don't know anything about him.
I mean, look at him.
There's something seriously
wrong with him.
(YELLS)
Jesus!
Hey. Joel!
Joel!
(SMOKE ALARM BEEPS RAPIDLY)
(ON RADIO) ..and the fire
is in sight,
follow directions around...
(ALARM CONTINUES)
(ON RADIO) If you are in your home,
close all doors and windows.
Shelter in a room opposite
the approaching fire...
(ANIMALS AND BIRDS SCREECH AND CALL)
..and ensure you have clear...
Adrian!
(SCREECHING CONTINUES)
(SCREECHING, SQUAWKING INTENSIFIES)
(SCREECHING, SQUAWKING CONTINUES)
(BREATHES HEAVILY)
(WHIMPERS)
(SCREECHING STOPS ABRUPTLY)
(BREATHES HEAVILY)
I don't think he's coming back.
What do we do?
Mum?
It's OK, Roi.
(ENGINE STARTS)
SAI: Joel!
Joel!
(SNIFFLES)
BEC: Joel! Please come back!
(SOBS)
Come on, mate!
(CRIES)
Joel!
Joel, please!
You're right.
I'm not just carsick.
I'm, uh...
I...I used to...
..use drugs.
But I'm on methadone now.
But I haven't had any because my
friend, she stole it, yesterday.
So...so that's...
..that's why I'm like this.
You scared Roi.
I know.
I'm so sorry.
Are you even going to your mother's?
That's what you said. You said she
has a big family Christmas lunch.
Or was that a lie too?
No.
That wasn't a lie.
I never said I was invited.
I'm trying.
I'm trying to get better.
Lall!
Babe?
Lally!
RADIO: An evacuation centre has been
set up at Walker Beach.
Hey.
(GASPS)
Oh, God, thank God.
Oh, God.
You scared me.
(SOBS) Oh, God.
It's OK. You're alright.
You're alright. You're safe.
Thanks so much for...
for dropping me off.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Yeah, I better get going now
'cause my mate, he's, um...
he's waiting for me.
So I'll just, uh...
Thanks for the socks.
You're welcome.
You're sure you wanna do this?
You can still come with us
back to Canberra.
We can drop you anywhere.
Joel.
Chemists open soon, mate.
Just keep following this road,
then you'll hit the T
and then you'll see the signs.
See you, mate.
See you.
Hey, can you soak these
in the laundry?
I'm gonna go get the pump
out of the shed.
You disconnected the gas, didn't you?
Yeah.
RADIO: Residents are advised,
however...
I'll do the towels.
..to stay alert
as winds are unpredictable
and warnings could likely change.
Emergency warnings are...
Adrian?
Yeah?
I can't do this.
Can't do what?
I can't stay.
We know what we're doing.
Look, we've got a plan.
That's just a piece of paper
and it's not going to protect us.
Hey, come on.
You're OK.
(WHISPERS) I'm not.
I'm so fucking scared.
I know that you might not be,
but I am.
I do not want to die in a fire, and
I don't want you to die in a fire.
I want us to go.
I just want us to go.
I'm sorry that you
spent the night alone.
Oh, my God.
OK?
I'm sorry that you got scared.
Please, Adrian, I'm begging you.
I want to leave
and I want you to come with me.
Everything we have is in this house.
All the energy...
I don't have it in me.
I can't do that all over again.
This was supposed to be the place
we were going to
grow old together, Lall.
I can't leave it.
Please.
I mean, it's just a fucking house.
I can't stay.
Well, the road should still be clear,
if you go now.
(INDISTINCT COMMUNICATION
OVER RADIOS)
(COUGHS)
Shit.
Hey, Tash.
Ugh.
LALLY: Hello? Excuse me.
Excuse me?
Hi.
Hey.
Um, I just wanted to let you guys
know that I'm evacuating
so you can take my name
off that list.
Oh, great.
Thanks for letting us know.
No problem.
My partner, Adrian, is staying.
If you could keep his...
his name down.
OK. Yeah, we will.
Thank you.
Thanks for letting us know.
You can stop if you want, Mott.
Just make this your last rotation.
Nah.
I wanna keep going.
OK.
Yeah.
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
OK.
Highway's closed.
No-one's getting out till we get
the all clear, alright?
MAN: Michelle McAullay,
Bungen's only claim to fame.
You back for Christmas?
Stuffed up my timing,
hey, Mr Finlay.
Will Santa be able to find us
if we're not at home?
They might have to bring me
my helicopter.
Santa's coming!
What'll happen
when they wake up in the morning
and there's no Santa,
no presents, nothing?
That's all the food we had!
Where are you going? The fires are
still going on out there, yeah?
I'm going to my place.
There's food and presents there.
Well, go on.
Before I change my mind.
We've got a problem.
We've lost some of them.
I don't think we should be out here.
There's still fires burning.
(WHISTLE BLOWS URGENTLY)
Ethan!
Captions by Red Bee Media